autoupdater: introduce github pull request branch autoupdater (#19)
simplesurance/goordinator: README.md

## Introduction

Goordinator is an event-processor for GitHub events.
It provides 2 functionalities.

### Configurable Event-Trigger Loop

> Goordinator can listen for GitHub webhook events, runs their JSON payloads

Reviewer: verb is not consistent with the rest of the sentence
```suggestion
Goordinator listens for GitHub webhook events, runs their JSON payloads
```

through a JQ filter query and triggers actions if the filter matches.
The supported actions are:
- posting a http-request
- updating a GitHub branch with it's base branch.

All actions are executed in parallel and retried if they fail until a retry
timeout expired (default: 2h).

### Serialized GitHub Branch Autoupdater

> Autoupdate keeps Pull-Requests (PR) updated with their base-branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Autoupdater keeps Pull-Requests (PR) updated with their base branch.
```

> Pull-Requests are added to a per base-branch-queue and the first pull-request in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pull-Requests are added to a per base branch queue and the first pull-request in
```

> the queue is kept uptodate with it's base-branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the queue is kept up to date with its base branch.
```

Author: > Same goes for up to date – if it’s before a noun it needs a hyphen. A document is up to date but it’s an up-to-date document.

did not know about

> If merging the base-branch into the PR branch fails, it's check status becomes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If merging the base branch into the PR branch fails, its check status becomes
```

> negative or the PR became stale, updates for it are suspended.

Reviewer: This sentence is not 100% clear, you seem to be talking about 2 different things, but they're getting mixed up together by the end of the sentence.
My understanding:
* if merging the base branch in the PR fails, a status check will be in failure state and updates will be suspended
* if the PR became stale (maybe clarify what _stale_ actually means), updates will also be suspended
* updates will be resumed once the PR status checks are successful

Perhaps trying to synthesize the workflow via bullet points would help the reader.

Author: thx, I changed it and added bullet points as suggested, I hope it's now more clear

Updates for it are resumed when the base-branch or the PR branch changed or the
check status of the PR became positive.

> Autoupdate is used together with [Github's auto-merge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Autoupdater is used together with [Github's auto-merge
```

feature](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests/incorporating-changes-from-a-pull-request/automatically-merging-a-pull-request)
or a comparable service to provide a serialized merge-queue.

> The autoupdater serializes updates per base-branch, to avoid a race between

Reviewer: Feel free to keep the hyphenation, i just find it unnecessary :)
```suggestion
The autoupdater serializes updates per base branch, to avoid a race between
```

> pull-requests to get updates the fastest and have a successful CI check first.

Reviewer: Perhaps we could simply use PR and PRs to refer to Pull-Request and Pull-Requests throughout the rest of the document (you do explain that Pull-Request is PR at the very beginning).
Otherwise I would suggest keeping the same capitalization you used earlier for consistency :)

```suggestion
Pull-Requests to get updates the fastest and have a successful CI check first.
```

Author: agree :+1: 

It got a bit crazy with spelling "pull request", later I found out github spells it without hyphen and I think I used that writing also somewhere

Author: I normalized the spelling

> Without an external auto-merge service the autoupdater is useless.

Reviewer: Maybe another mention that people can write their own as long as it provides a payload with the expected format?

"No current plans to make it modular, but PRs are welcome :)" ?

## Introduction

Goordinator is an event-processor for GitHub events.
It provides 2 functionalities.

### Configurable Event-Trigger Loop

Goordinator listens for GitHub webhook events, runs their JSON payloads
through a JQ filter query and triggers actions if the filter matches.
The supported actions are:
- posting a http-request

> - updating a GitHub branch with it's base branch.

Reviewer: much clearer, thanks :+1: 
just the usual suggestion :sweat_smile: 

```suggestion
- updating a GitHub branch with its base branch.
```

All actions are executed in parallel and retried if they fail until a retry
timeout expired (default: 2h).

### Serialized Synchronization of GitHub Pull Request with their Base Branch

Autoupdater keeps pull requests (PR) updated with their base branch. \
Pull requests are added to a per base branch queue and the first pull request in
the queue is kept up to date with its base branch. \
Updates for the PR branch are suspended when:

- the base-branch can not be merged into the PR branch because of a
  merge-conflict,
- its GitHub check status becomes negative or

> - it became stale and its status have not changed for a longer time period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- it became stale and its status has not changed for a long time period.
```

Author: I would prefer to keep it unspecific in the README (otherwise I have to keep those details uptodate). The idea was to have in the README only a short summarized subscription of the features.
Later I can either link the godoc or create a more end-user friendly detailed documentation in the wiki.

The long time period is 3h (https://github.com/simplesurance/goordinator/blob/810a251ddcbbdf9c8e72c743fd88d29dda514c2a/internal/autoupdate/queue.go#L21) :-)

> Updates for it are resumed when the base-branch or the PR branch changed or the
> check status of the PR became positive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates for it are resumed when:
- the PR or its base branch changed
- the PR's status(es) check(s) became positive.
```
